Location of this README file: /SITE/PROJECT/dev

# Front-End development files for WEB UI presentation layer

The elements residing in this directory ("UI library") were designed by Joel Hagedorn and
then passed off to Andy Mardesich.

Note: all javascript and css referenced by EZID resideds in the /static directory.
All UI development is run in the /dev directory. Once design changes or additions are
finalized, they need to be moved to this /static directory.

## Legacy /src environment
The /src directory was set up in the inital phase of the UI re-design (before Joel came
aboard to help build teh UI LIbrary). It is composed strictly of SASS[1] files which are
more Bootstrap[2] dependent. When Joel came aboard, the designs built here in the UI Library
no longer relied on Bootstrap. But a certain portion of Bootstrap is still being used for
EZID UI.

 /src/_variables.scss
 /src/_bootstrap.scss
 Files in the '/src/bootstrap' directory
The primary stylesheet for legacy styles are compiled by main.scss into main.css

Note: Moved everything from the /src directory and merge them here in /dev/legacy-scss,
when time allows. It will make things more manageable to have all UI development components
in one place.

## New /dev
This /dev directory contains the static, client-side elements, completeley separate from
EZID's django templates. ...all the elements used for preliminary building and testing
EZID's UI front end in the "UI Library". It includes fonts and images as well as SASS,
Javascript, and html mock page templates.

The primary stylesheet for this work area is compiled by main2.scss into main2.min.css.
Primary Javascript file is main2.js, minified into main2.min.js. These files also need
to be copied over to /static when ready to run on Django.

## Legacy stylesheet compilation 
EZID (development build only) includes libsass python extension module for processing SassScript.

To build CSS from SASS (.scss) files:
sassc ~/apache/ezid/SITE/PROJECT/src/styles/main.scss ~/apache/ezid/SITE/PROJECT/static/stylesheets/main.css

## "UI Library" stylesheet compilation 
main2.css stylesheet/javascript compilation process:

Gulp is a build system, reliant on node.js, npm and ruby
https://github.com/JoelCDL/gulp_template

* Running 'gulp' brings up the static "UI Library" development workspace for testing components
    and page layouts
* Running 'gulp build' to generate all production-ready files included in the bash script below


======================================================================
Here's a bash script for building CSS stylesheets within the legacy src environment, or for copying over files generated by gulp build in 'dev'. Eventually, files maintained in 'dev' this should be the primary resource for modifying front-end CSS & JS for EZID.


buildStyles.bash:

if [ ${1} == "src" ]; then
  sassc ~/SITE/PROJECT/src/styles/main.scss ~/SITE/PROJECT/static/stylesheets/main.css
  echo -e "ran sassc on src/styles/main.scss\n"
elif [ ${1} == "dev" ]; then
  cp ~/SITE/PROJECT/ui_library/css/main2.min.css ~/SITE/PROJECT/static/stylesheets/
  echo -e "Copied ui_library/css/main2.min.css to static/stylesheets"
  cp ~/SITE/PROJECT/ui_library/js/main2.min.js ~/SITE/PROJECT/static/javascripts/
  echo -e "Copied ui_library/js/main2.min.js to static/javascripts\n"
else 
  echo "Usage: bash buildStyles.bash [src|dev]."
  echo "Please recheck the variable."
  exit 1
fi

exit $?

FYI: I notice this script doesn't also copy over any new fonts and images.

 
## Footnotes
1. SASS is a scripting language that is interpreted into CSS stylesheets (http://sass-lang.com/)
2. Bootstrap: An HTML, CSS, and JS framework for developing responsive UI (http://getbootstrap.com/)



